# DScapstone


This research aims at creating an accurate prediction analysis model for the medical industry. Given a set of medical parameters, this model will be able to accurately predict the best course of action for the patient in a more streamlined and personalized way. Additionally, this project will incorporate a chatbot into the Mercury Corp. website, which will allow nurses to be able to quickly reference important procedures and protocols as needed. Using the chatbot in this way will help to serve as an valuable tool for training new employees, allowing them to quickly improve their own medical skills. Ultimately, this will contribute towards fewer misdiagnoses as well as improved decision making, leading to better outcomes for the patients.


### Chatbot
The chatbot is currently using the medical_qa.csv file. It is using a Flask app that separates the data into questions and answers. Then, it vectorizes the data and removes stop words. Using an extract_words function, it finds the important words for medical information based on a set list of key terms. Then, it handles query requests and returns a response. The web-page for the chatbot is still being created; however, this offers a start for the structure of the chatbot.


### Patient Analysis
Milestone 3: 

In this project, models were developed to predict the Length of Stay (LOS) for patients using medical records data, focusing on demographic information, medication codes, encounter reasons, and visit history. Various models were expiermented with, including tree-based approaches (Random Forest and Gradient Boosting), linear models (Linear Regression, Ridge, Lasso, and ElasticNet), and a sequential neural network with embedded categorical features. After thorough evaluation, the Lasso Regression (alpha=0.01) model demonstrated the best performance, with a Test MAE of 0.0693 and Test RMSE of 0.0940. Additionally, combining the best Lasso and ElasticNet models into an ensemble further improved results, achieving a Test MAE of 0.0657 and Test RMSE of 0.0914. Data encoding was carefully managed, with label encoding for tree-based models, one-hot encoding for linear models, and embedding layers for sequential models. While sequential models posed computational challenges, the ensemble method balanced accuracy and generalization effectively. Future work will focus on feeding patient records into the model and adding to the website.

### Fixing Up Website
The website is currently being updated to improve upon some of its pages that look a bit rough around the edges. A new branch has also been created in order to work on the website from the branch before moving those new changes onto the main branch. That way, it would prevent errors from affecting the website in the main branch while also allowing for debugging to occur. Creation of a chatbot box on the nurse_dash.php page has been started in order to allow the nurses on the site to ask the chatbot questions if they need help. Chatbot can currently send responses back to user, but more work needs to be done in order to ensure no errors with chatbot code. Since there are certain responses to questions that the chatbot doesn't have any answers to, an automatic prompt is now given to let the user know that the chatbot can't answer the question in order to avoid the chatbot replying with an error. Changed up the login page so that it redirects automatically to the nurse_dashboard page instead of the employee dashboard page. The resident dashboard page was also changed as the page wasn't configured to the style of the other mercury corp pages.



### Git Commit 6:
Jackson and Nolan spent a lot of time this week making the website look more professional and structured. The overall user interface is improved with connections into the database to allow for accurate displays on the website. Employees who belong in Dept_ID 1 can now post announcements to the announcement board on the profile page. The tables and forms have been improved to make it as intuitive as possible for employees to fill out. As far as the chatbot goes, Jackson has improved the user interface a bit to make it easier to use. 


# Milestone 3

### Chatbot:
The chatbot now utilizes an OpenAI key that allows us to use artificial intelligence to generate accurate and concise answers to the user's query. The prompt that we gave the chatbot is listed in app.py file. AI is given the prompt which allows it to understand the type of response we are looking for. Responses are given in bulleted format. After each response, the chatbot will ask the user if they need another question answered and to re-select from the two options: General Health or Masonic Policies. The structure of the masonicDocs folder has changed significantly. It is now comprised of a single CSV file that contains all of the policies given to us by Masonic Village. This change was done to improve the speed of iteration for the chatbot, and to reduce the amount of selection buttons for users to select. Now, they can simply choose Masonic Policies and type the procedure or keyword that they need defined. This made it much easier for us to output responses without losing track of file paths. In the future, we expect to completely remove the chatbotData folder as it is now unnecessary for the success of our chatbot. The user interface of the chatbot has improved. It now allows users to drag the window wherever they want on the screen. They can also minimize the window or completely close it. 

#### Usage of the chatbot:
To use the chatbot, you first have to download the full code from our Git Repository. Once you have the code, in a terminal you must cd into the chatbot folder. Unless you have access to our API key, you will not be able to use our chatbot from just this code alone. You would have to generate a unique API key on OpenAI's website and add a minimum of $5 worth of credits into your account. This will fund the responses to your queries. Once you have an API key created, make a file named ".env" and put this file in the chatbot folder. In this file, type: OPENAI_API_KEY="YOUR_API_KEY_HERE". Once you have that, go back to your terminal where you are in the chatbot folder. Type "python app.py" and it will activate the chatbot. You may have to download some libraries depending on what you already have installed.

### Interface of the website:
The website has become more user-friendly overall. When you log in, an animation of our Mercury logo appears on the page adding a unique flare to the website. The forms that an employee would fill out for patients are cleaned up, making it much easier to decide what to do at each box. Employees with the nurse ID can make announcements that appear for every employee. This can be changed in the future depending on the different ID's given to employees. You can now add residents on the add_resident.php page. On this page, you fill out entries on a form and it gets sent to the database. For announcements, we added an independent table to the database that stores the announcements, allowing us to display them on the webpage.
